The previous read you really that different collection interfaces and what the different High-Level
implementations that are present for each interface.
So we just got a high level view of data collection classes in this review.
We look at a lot of examples of code examples around these collections.
Let's start with the basic one.
The thing is when I'm doing any integers don't add five.
What I'm doing is I'm being Arto boxing So what happens here is order boxing and it would create a new
integer and put it into the list.
So collections can only hold objects they cannot hold primitives.
We are creating an aerialist in here.
So we are creating a list at a list the way you are acting's internet illiterate using the ADD letter.
So basically you can add without any index.
Then the element is added at the end of the list so suchan.
Now we decided to try we decided at the end of the list where I can add it to a specific index as well.
So if I want to add that index zero then what would happen such it would be pushed out and Ganguli would
be inserted at index.
So if you add zero comma Dunkley then this is what would happen if you again add such when it would
be added in because at least allows for duplicate.
Like any other collection list also would support aerialist would also support the containment.
So you can take campaigns drugget it would that are not true and you can migrate around the list using
the threat of our default loop.
The other method which are present in the list are index also so you can find where grogginess pleasant.
So it returns true.
In the previous list that we created there was no Bradman.
So if an element is not present it would return minus 1.
You can also use index to get the element so if you can take I want the batch matched index one similar
to when I read the index for all the collection to start with the euro.
So the index runs from zero to minus 1 where n is the size or zero the size of minus one Badgeman that
get one would get the second element in the list.
So in the list that we had the second element is such.
So that's basically what is written back.
And also there are two variations on the remove function.
You can either remove the element then it's directly removed and now you have Ganguli such and such
in all.
You can remove the element at a specific index so I'm saying small element at index 1.
So this searching which is at index 1 0 1 2 index 1 is this.
So this is the one which is removed.
The other thing you can do is start the collection.
So here I am seeing collections dots part numbers.
So this list is sorted and one two three four becomes four to one to the two.
Can you explain why this is because we are storing strings they are sorted in the alphabetical order
of these strings including creating an analyst with a crook under-class and I'm trying to sort the I
mean I'm trying to print all the elements in there so the elements by default are in the insertion order
so in such a pattern for such in next.
David buntings if I created a secret would print that and such and read and Ponting as we expected.
If the cricketer class does not implement the comparable interface so if the click of class does not
impact implement the compatable interface then I will not be able to use collections of that sort.
I'll be only be able to use the sart function collection or taught function on any or any class that
implements the comparable.
So here I am implementing the comparable now.
Now if I can go ahead and because this is compared to is implemented I can use this.
I can do a start around this to what we did was to make the Collect cricketer's class implement the
comparable interface and then you'll be able to Sard the Cricketer's So now that started in the increasing
order of their friends Bradman.
9 9 9 6 you can see that they are indeed increasing order of their runs so collection that sort should
be used on any list of any items where the item implements the comparable interface.
The other option is also when you are creating.
When you're doing the sort you can actually provide us startup so you can say I want to use a specific
sorter.
So how do we create a descending sorter.
Basically you implement the competitor and say you implement the competitor interface and implement
a competitor off two instances of that particular object which is mentioned in here.
And then you can use this charter to start your cricketer's.
As you can see the descending started Sarge's the batsman in the decreasing order of runs so such and
comes first and Bradman comes last.
Next List.
Let's look at a few examples of set the set.
The fact is that sets do not allow duplicate.
So let's take half said and as we discussed earlier not implement in the end this doesn't happen.
Ordering anything that starts with the hash if hash is the first four letters of class then it would
not have pulled the ring so.
So Hatchard also does not support our ordering.
So you can see here like I am implementing such in first I'm adding such in first that could be read
next such and I read a again out in such an this would read and false and because this is a duplicate
it will not be added in in a set you cannot store duplicate.
So you don't have such in Dravid Sachin it's just such in and it because Sachin is a duplicate.
And next we are using a preset in a crusade as we discussed earlier.
Objects are stored in a sorted order.
So I'm adding such in so such an Dravet that it comes alphabetically before such intertribal it would
be for such an next Ganguli Ganguli alphabetically sits between Drebin and such and so that's the order
in which they would represent Krongard touching.
Again he's a duplicate to not be added that basically you were preset.
So we looked at a couple of examples of said classes so hash set and reset.
Next we would look at hash map.
So here I am creating a hash map with string and cricketer's.
So the keys are string and the values are created.
The key I'm using it as a name to name suchan and the cricketers object to these starting elements into
the hash map using the put put Kikkoman value and I can do hash Molder get born.
What does it do.
It gets the Poynting element and it blends that to the bird and get Lara.
So lala's is not here.
So when I do get when the key is not found it will return a value not earlier Ponting had level doesn't
find it rant.
I'm using the key here again and putting a new instance of the character.
What happens is the existing instance existing bonding will you get or redone and this well you would
be replace.
So if I do a hash map that get Ponting here it could be pointing.
Eleven thousand eight hundred whatever is the latest value that I put in to the hash map the map on
the other hand is storing the keys in the solitude order.
So I'm adding such in first so suchan then I'm adding rabbit rabbit as a key is before such intertribal
such in an extra Martling point so be it between DNS So David Ponting suchan and Bragman Bregman his
first alphabetically.
So it comes alphabetically first.
So as you can see three map stores the keys it stores the elements in the order of their keys.
Next we have the navigable set and the navigable map interfaces right.
So reset implemented unnavigable set interface remapping elements the navigable map interface.
So as we discussed earlier Chrisette stores things in the sorted order.
So because the elements are in that order you can also navigate through them and try and get a set of
things which are low or higher and things like that.
So the navigable map interface on the map will set interface has methods which allow us to do that.
So I'm adding a set of elements into it.
I'm adding in a preset five numbers.
So what you can do here is try and get elements lower than 25.
So roosted said that lower than 25 how many are there.
Just one five.
I can also get the highest number which is lower than or equal to 25.
How do you do that.
That's using the floor method.
You can get the lowest number that is higher than 25 so that's higher.
So which is the lowest number which is higher than 25.
Feeling is the lowest number which is higher than or equal to 25.
So here if you look at it higher than 25 higher 25 and 35.
So after 25 the next number is 35.
On the other and ceiling on the other hand also takes the element which you passed into consideration
25 is already an element in this.
So it didn't 25 back and the same kind of things are possible with the remap as well because remap implement
navigable maps so you have a lower key floor key hierarchy and the ceiling Kimmett.
Next we'll look at a few examples of the priority queue as we looked at it earlier.
Pretty cool stores element in the order of their priority natural order.
So smaller them have higher priority natural ordering of numbers so small numbers have the higher priority.
So I'm standing in here so I'm seeing parodic you don't offer so I'm offering up element into the queue
so I'm putting an element into this specific strategy for 14 15 9 and 45.
So if you play in the priority queue you'd see that it's storing elements in some random the Drunkery
in the priority order when I do a peak you can see that I get the element with the highest priority
the one with the highest priority as we saw earlier is the smallest number which is nine.
So I get nine first the most important thing about the method is that it does not change the cue so
the peak method just is the top element and the Q is nine.
But I'm not going to take it out of the cube.
So if you put in the cue here it's still 9:24 15 and 40 for.
However the ball method is a little different ball but that would beg the element out of the cue.
So when I do a ball it isn't 9 but nine is now removed from the cue.
The remaining elements are in the cue or 24:15 and 45 in the earlier priority queue.
What we did was we used the natural ordering.
But you can actually define a competitor which would give high priority to the biggest number.
So if you really want to create such a competitor you can't do that.
And when you're creating the priority queue you can use a reverse competitor as well.
So that's one of the parameters that you can pass in to the priority queue constructor.
And now if I can add elements to the queue and they would be removed if you do speak of the highest
element would come up.
So the highest element has the highest priority.
So that's your priority.
Q Let's end this section by looking at a few static method to chapters and in the collections class.
As we look at that as we discussed earlier collection is an interface collection's is a class collection's
class has a lot of static methods.
Some of them are in here.
You can do a binary search so you can pass a list as an input and you can do a binary search with a
specific key and you can also do a binary search by passing a competitor in as well.
And you can reverse a list.
And also you can start a list using these Dabic methods which are present in the collections class.
So all the static method to represent the collections class are really useful to do operations on the
collection objects.
One of the most important things about collections is that there are so many collections that it can
get really confusing to remember what we are talking about.
So the best way I would suggest to you to do is to dig this collection hierarchy class and kind of take
a print out or something of it and kind of look at it a few times.
This collection hierarchy class has all the important things that you'd need to remember about all the
collection classes that we discussed and this collection examples class.
It's about 550 lines of code contains all the examples example pieces of code that we looked at in this
particular section.
So I would really recommend to you to do an exercise take 30 minutes spend some time looking at the
collection hierarchy take a printout out something hang it somewhere and do whatever is in the collections
examples at least once or twice try to go through it try to understand it in depth.
And I'm sure if you complete these two examples you'd be really thorough about what there were things
that you would need to know about corrections.
And the next section bullae.